The station of the cross presents sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled, St. Casimir and Lucius, Be Bold in Your Faith.
namanipratisitiri i etspetitisangti amen.
Every day during Lent is proper.
Every day has its own epistle and gospel.
Nevertheless, the saints still have their days too.
And so we commemorated today Saint Kasmir and Saint Lucius.
And so we'll hear about those two saints today.
So first, Saint Kasmir, he was born in 1458 to King Kasmir IV of Poland.
He was raised as any royal son would have been raised and trained to inherit the kingdom.
However, he had a private tutor who was a priest and very pious.
And this priest inspired St. Casimir with such a love of the heavenly kingdom that he valued that more than his father's kingdom, this earthly kingdom.
So despite being surrounded by the luxuries of a royal court, young Kazmir devoted himself to prayer and to works of penance.
He wore a hair shirt, slept on the bare floor, and often spent whole nights in prayer.
So this is something, right?
Many people, mostly children, but even others will dream of being a king or a queen or a princess or something like that.
That's not all it's cracked up to be, but they desire wealth and influence and all this.
But St. Casimir had that.
He had that already, and his dream was to be a monk, just a simple monk.
But because of his station in life, he wasn't really able to live as he wanted to.
He was always being pressed to learn those things that a young prince should learn, hunting and dancing and politics and warfare, which he hated most of all.
And when St. Kazmir was only 13, his father decided it was time to invade Hungary, so he placed his son at the head of an army and sent him with the forces to go, you know, it was more of a figurehead, but to be in charge of this military campaign.
St. Kazmir did not want to go at all, but felt obliged by the wishes of his father.
So he goes to this campaign and thankfully it fails, perhaps due to the prayers of young Kazmir, and he returns to Poland with the army, having been unsuccessful.
So St. Kazmir's father was furious at this failure and ended up locking St. Kazmir in prison for three months.
Which was a vacation for St. Casimir.
He loved it.
He could pray all day.
He did his vigils.
His food was terrible.
He slept on the bare floor.
Not a problem, right?
And this is the one thing that we think about during Lent, when we undertake these penances, this is what we're going for, is to render what the world thinks as a hardship, not a hardship.
Go ahead, do your worst.
I'm not going to be affected by it, right?
Food chain, supply shortages, whatever.
Right.
I'm going, I'm doing, we're doing the Lent food chain shortage here this, this time.
So anyways, um, let's see, uh, fasting prayers.
His father again attempted to say, okay, well, the military didn't work.
I'll get my son married.
So he set up this arranged this marriage with the, uh, daughter of the emperor, uh, Frederick the third, uh, but St. Casimir informed his father he had taken a vow of celibacy and he was slightly refused.
We'll not get married.
So his father gave up at this point.
and said, fine, you're hopeless.
But Saint Casimir was perfectly happy to continue his ascetical life.
which was extremely edifying to the people around him.
Probably the best thing that the young chasmier did for the kingdom was to be an example.
The common people were used to the corruption at court.
That example of luxury and vice and excess and intemperance and all manner of these
this manner of living, but here St. Casimir was actually living for God, despite being surrounded by the contagion of bad example.
And so I'm certain that he had a much, much greater influence on the kingdom than his father realized was happening.
But people were very edified by that.
And in fact, St. Casimir, during his life, had a great devotion to our Blessed Mother.
And he had a favorite hymn.
It was called in Latin, Omni Die
Deke Maria, or Daily, Daily, Sing to Mary.
That was his favorite hymn.
And they started calling it St. Casimir's hymn.
He didn't compose it, but he enjoyed it so much that they called it after him.
But his life was not to be too long in this world.
He contracted a lung disease in his early 20s and then died just a few years later at age 25.
He was greatly mourned by the common people immediately after his death and his veneration began at the same time.
Now, a miracle occurred about 30 years after the death of St. Casimir.
And this was a city in Lithuania, which is a bordering country to Poland.
A city in Lithuania was being attacked by the Russians.
They're still at it these days.
And so Poland sent some troops to relieve the city in Lithuania.
However, there was a great river on the outskirts of the city, and these Polish troops were unable to cross.
It was swelled at this time that they weren't able to cross.
Well, they had a vision of St. Casimir.
He appeared to the army and showed them a safe passage over the river.
The army did cross, and they were able to rescue that Lithuanian city from the aggression.
And for this reason, St. Casmier, even though he was the Prince of Poland, he was named patron saint of Lithuania.
Now this is very interesting in that, you remember St. Therese said that she wanted to spend her heaven doing good upon earth.
And I can't imagine or I just, it seems to me that remember St. Casmier was sent on this mission to invade Hungary.
He was sent on a military mission.
He didn't want to go, but he went anyways.
It seems that in heaven, I wonder if the saints ask God, you know, can I intervene on earth to kind of repair the damage I did?
I was involved in a military aggression and I'd like to prevent one.
So he comes back to earth, he intervenes on behalf of the Lithuanians and he helps to prevent a military aggression, kind of like repairing the damage he did when he was on earth.
So it seems very much like that.
There's a number of other things too.
I'm thinking, well,
Whatever you'll hear about in my other sermons, but I think I think that that seems very reasonable, right?
You see that in their lives They do what's the one thing on earth and later on that they're able to correct it Now also, you know just a note of what use is it to know all these saints of foreign countries, right?
Like who cares in Kazmir is a patron saint of Lithuania and you're about all these these other saints well, I want to tell you I
In Lithuania, on the Sunday closest to the Feast of St. Casimir, they have the huge celebration.
Pastries and all kinds of like everybody dresses up and they have, it's a festival, right?
And everybody comes together.
Everybody, not just Catholics, everybody comes together.
The whole country of Lithuania and every town there's St. Casimir's feast day.
And those people are being brought together and they're celebrating one of our friends, St. Casimir, where all brothers and sisters in Christ.
And this is why it's important to know.
So people we don't even know halfway across the world dressed in all these funny costumes that we've never seen before, eating all this, you know, delicious food that we've never had.
They're Catholic too.
We have the same faith.
That's what unites us.
And this is what is powerful about the Catholic Church.
People talk about the one world government these days.
That's the Catholic Church.
The Catholic Church is the one world government that will unite everybody.
Communism is at the antithesis.
Socialism is the opposite of
the Catholic principles.
What supposedly unites communism is everybody possesses physical property in common.
We all own the same house.
We all own the same land.
Guess what?
You can't all own the same land.
We all own the same food.
Yeah, right.
And the naked is divided and everybody gets nothing, right?
There's little peace.
But guess what?
Everybody can own the same idea, the same virtue, the same faith.
When everybody owns one piece of property, that property is devalued.
When everybody owns the same idea, the idea's value is increased because everybody owns it.
That's the idea that needs to unite the world.
Everybody owning and possessing the same truth.
So that's just the one little bit, right?
One little saint that we can know and say, I know something about Lithuania, I know something about Poland, and now we have a connection with all those people.
That's part of what the Catholic faith is.
So let's see.
Now something quickly on St. Lucius I.
This is... Well, we'll just hear about this.
Pope and martyr.
St. Lucius I, again, this is the Pope, right?
This is a saint we've never heard of before, perhaps.
He was in Italy in the year 253. Who's ever been to Italy, you know, and who knows who cares what happened there 1800 years ago.
Well, he reigned for 18 months and he was martyred in the reign of Valerian.
St. Cyprian praises him for upholding Catholic doctrine against the Novation heretics.
What was the heresy of the Novations?
Those Catholics who had apostatized from the faith during persecution, right, they were weak, they were says, offer incense to the gods or die, they offered incense.
They apostatized, publicly.
Well, the Novation said they can't be readmitted to the church.
You can't be forgiven.
You can't come back to Mass.
You can't receive all the communion.
And it was St. Lucius who stood firm against that heresy.
So if you've ever been forgiven in confession for a serious sin, that's why you need to know St. Lucius because he stood for the church's doctrine.
People can be forgiven even against apostasy.
Now there are, again, we don't know very much about his life.
But one thing that I think we should know about this when reading the lives of the saints recently, there are impious assertions that
The past was wrong, like here for one, that St. Lucius was not really a martyr.
And here's a line I read it from one source.
In spite of what is mistakenly stated in the Lieber Pontificalis, Lucius did not in fact suffer martyrdom.
The persecution of Eulerian, in which he was said to have been martyred, is known to have started later than March of 254 when Pope Lucius died.
So the Valyrian persecution started in 257, and so this is pointing out Lucius died in 254, so that's three years beforehand, so he couldn't have been a martyr.
Well, first of all, so the official start is 257.
Do we find it impossible that nobody was killed for the faith until the official start of a persecution?
That doesn't make any sense.
And secondly, let's be forget, the persecution of Decius had just ended.
Decius the emperor had persecuted the church from 250 to 251.
So there's a six year respite and then persecution started again.
In fact, it was the Decian persecutions that was why people had apostatized and why Lucius was forgiving them.
is persecution was ongoing.
Just like when we have the Valerian persecution, not everybody in every city and every town was persecuted.
It was harder in some, not in others.
And so it makes sense to reason that in some places persecution, even if there wasn't a declared one, persecutions were probably still happening.
But anyways, that's just conjecture.
Let's look at what the martyrology actually says about Pope St. Lucius, martyr.
In the cemetery of Callistus on the Via Appia, the burial of St. Lucius' Pope.
For his faith in Christ, he suffered exile and acted as an outstanding confessor of the faith, with moderation and prudence in the difficult times that were his.
Thus the martyrology.
So this says he was exiled from Rome.
Now, exile is not a walk in the park.
He wasn't exiled to a five-star hotel.
So he probably died in exile from the hardships due to the exile.
There are many martyrs in the early church who are called martyrs for this very reason.
He was exiled by Edith of the Emperor and died alone on an island.
Is that a martyrdom?
Yes.
Why did he die?
Because he went to exile.
Was he beheaded or this or that?
No, he wasn't.
But he gave his life, right?
He was exiled.
He died because of the hardships.
That's called a martyrdom.
So there's a very, very bad tendency in the church these days is to be dismissive of the past.
This kind of like we've experienced it recently, this bogus fact checking.
Lucius wasn't really a martyr.
He was exiled and died in exile, so not really a martyr.
Just offer the explanation.
This is how he's a martyr.
Don't deny, don't cast this doubt and suspicion on the past.
That's part of the problem.
One of the reasons that we don't know the saints is this very attitude, is there's this kind of cloud of suspicion like what we don't really know what happened one way or the other, or they're too distant in the past, or too far away, or what have you.
But when we look at it as the saints are part of our family, these are our friends, and they are the best friends we can have.
This is the best example we're going to get.
We're surrounded by bad example from other people in this world.
We can look to the saints and say, there's a good example.
You know, we don't have to be living in Poland in the 1400s to benefit from St. Casimir's good example.
We can read his life and say, that inspires me.
And despite the fact that I'm surrounded by evil in my workplace, in my city, in my town, whatever, I can go to the book of the saints.
I can find good people who inspire me.
That's why we need to know the saints.
And that's why we shouldn't be so quick to dismiss their legends or other stories as legends or fables.
So regardless of how far away somebody is in time or in space or in culture, we have something in common.
We share the same faith.
We have the same ideas.
We have the same love for Christ.
That is what is going to save the world is when the entire world embraces the truth of the Catholic faith.
But they'll never embrace it.
If they're not told, you need to.
This is the one true faith.
Every man must belong to it.
Let's be bold in our faith and bold in professing it.
And we start with the example of our lives.
So, Saint Casimir, Saint Lucius, pray for us.
God bless you all.
Father, tell him the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, Saint Casimir and Lucius, Be Bold in Your Faith.
Our next sermon is entitled, Put God First.
We have the 10 commandments on the first reading, 10 commandments, of course, the first three commandments focus on our love for God and our duties to Him and the seven duties to our neighbor.
And it's interesting how we put God first in the first commandment.
We honor His name and we worship Him in the third commandments.
This focus on God, focus on
our Lord, and then the seven commandment, the other seven, focusing on our neighbor and what we do owe to our neighbor, how we practice charity and don't hurt.
We don't hurt our neighbor.
And the first of the other seven is honor your mother and father, and how there's an order here.
We put our parents first, and then we learn to respect authority, and then don't kill.
Don't commit adultery, don't steal, and don't lie.
We know how destructive lying is in deceiving your neighbor and how we lose trust with our neighbor when we lie.
But it's interesting that we don't see any commitment concerning ourselves.
Thou shalt love yourself, thou shalt put yourself first, thou shalt see to all your needs.
There's no mention of self here.
It's God.
and neighbor, and this is how we save our soul.
We put God first, and we put our neighbor second, and it's not hard to see to our own needs, and we do have to save our own soul first before we save our neighbor.
But we have that in our instinct to see to our own needs.
We need to make the effort to put God first and then our neighbor in the order of our efforts.
So putting God first in our prayers, this is what our Lord is doing when he goes into the temple and he scatters the money changers tables and the sheep and the oxen and the marketplace that they are making of
of God's temple.
Our Lord's putting His Father first and the church, the temple was the place of prayer, not a place of selling and distractions, which reminds us of our own churches and our own house, our own home, our own soul, where we want to put God first.
And when we pray, we put
God first in our prayers.
When we kneel down to pray, we should always think of God's needs first, God's honor.
We're honoring God first in our prayers.
Really, we are thinking the sins we have committed against him.
We're expressing our sorrow.
We're thanking him for all that he has given to us.
We're showing gratitude to God.
We're honoring him and doing his will.
Putting Him first, we see that in the our Father, we see that in the commandments, which is what we need to do.
And before we even mention all our petitions and all our own needs, we see the immense importance of putting God first.
We are created to honor God and to give glory to God.
And yet we think of ourselves, our instinct is to put ourselves first in our prayers, in our thoughts.
And if we change all that, we don't change all that and put God first in our thoughts.
When we do that in our prayers, we will start thinking in this order.
Think God first, His needs, His will, His kingdom, His pleasure, what God wants.
This is what we all want to do.
If we do this, God, Jesus has said, we put His kingdom first, we'll have all of the things besides
besides, so we don't have to worry about anything else.
We put God first in what he wants in his will.
Everything else will fall into place.
And then after that, let's put our neighbor's needs, all of our neighbor's needs, all the needs of the world, all the sufferings of people around us and others and get in the habit
of going from God to our neighbor and then we could maybe bring our own petitions.
Our own petitions are really important too because we have so many faults, so many weaknesses, so many attachments, so many things we have to correct.
and improve in our own life.
We need to order our own life, our own actions and decisions.
All that's very important too, so we need to do very much and need to bring our own needs into prayer.
But, you know, maybe we need to put God first in our prayers, in our neighbor second, and then our own needs.
But we're all three together, all three together.
I think our Lord is teaching that in all of his teachings in the Gospels, which we are reflecting on each Sunday or each day when we come to Mass.
Our Lord stresses this and they ask Jesus, what is it?
Show me a sign to show that you have the authority to kick all these people out of the temple, to scatter the
of the animals and scatter the money-changing tables.
Where do you get all this authority?
Jesus doesn't even answer them.
He says, destroy this temple.
And in three days, I will raise it up.
Our Lord asked them before when they wanted him to say, where do you get this authority?
He said, will you answer me this question first?
Was the teachings of Saint John the Baptist from heaven or from earth?
And they wouldn't answer.
So he says, neither will I tell you what authority.
I do these things.
It was obvious what authority that Jesus had in the things he said.
His authority comes from God, and authority comes from God, God his Father.
And God his Father had said in the midst of all the people, all the crowds, listen to my son, listen to him.
This is my beloved son, listen to him and do what he says in Jesus, you know, in his commandments.
He would say,
You have heard that it is said, I for an eye, but I tell you, you know, turn the other cheek.
You have heard that it is said, I shall not kill.
I tell you, don't even have angered.
You heard that I said, do not commit adultery.
And I say, don't even look at lustfully after another person.
Our Lord is making commandments on his own authority, on his own authority because he is God on earth, giving all these commandments.
So he has this power in authority.
And he sees the hearts of the men.
He didn't trust himself to the belief of the Jews there who turned against him a few days later.
He saw into the hearts of men.
And yet he saw that they would betray him.
Many would betray him.
But he forgave all and gave us the grace after his
crucifixion and death.
He gives us the grace through his redemption, pouring forth his Holy Spirit into the world and into the church and into the sacraments.
He continues to give us grace to be faithful to him, to obtain forgiveness for our sins.
And we have so much to be thankful for.
And this is what we really should do in our prayers and making God's house a house of
prayer, knowing that we live on prayer, we feed on prayer, we have to be men and women of prayer, deep prayer every day.
Very often we can come in, we can come in before God in the morning and have fervent prayer.
We see the Eucharist.
We can be all full of fervor in the morning and say, I'm all set for the day.
And that's certainly definitely a big boost for the day.
But we have to pray an hour later.
We need to pray two hours later.
We need to pray in midday, evening and night.
We have to live on prayer in union with God to be strong, to do good, to stay good, to stay away from sin, to serve God as we're called to do.
This is a daily thing in many times a day.
And each day, every day, every day, faithful, faithful to the end of the day, the end of the week, the end of our life.
We're going to be faithful if we are faithful now.
And prayer is the way to faithfulness, prayer, prayer.
And we have to have a good place to pray.
We have to have a good place to pray in church, in our home, in our hearts, in making time, silence,
time alone with God, quality time, getting rid of sin, getting rid of attachments, true sin, getting rid of distractions, whatever it takes so that we can pray well, so we can stay united to God often, regularly, without ceasing.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled
put God first.
Our next sermon is entitled, Servant of God, Sylvester of Assisi.
March 4th, the Servant of God, Sylvester of Assisi, confessor, first order.
Sylvester was one of the first 12 associates who gathered about St. Francis, and he was, moreover,
the first priest in the order.
Just as the Apostle C. Matthew was called from the tax collector's bench, so was Sylvester called from an avaricious life to one of perfect poverty.
He was a descendant of a noble family in Assisi and possessed an estate near the city, from which even though he was a priest, he expected to draw a considerable gain.
It was he who sold a quantity of stones to St. Francis for the restoration of San Damiano.
He had received his price for them, but sometime later he saw St. Francis and Bernard of Quintavalle, who was the first to join the pioneer group of Franciscans, distributing the latter's wealth among the poor of the city.
Spurred by avarice, Sylvester approached St. Francis and complained that he had been poorly paid for those stones and that he ought to give him more money.
Saint Francis who could not be induced to quarrel over worldly goods, reached down into the bag and gave Sylvester a handful of money with the words here, take as much as you want, although I owe you nothing.
Sylvester eagerly took the money and went away.
Suddenly he was touched with remorse, entering into himself.
He reproached himself severely that he, a canon of the cathedral of San Rufino,
and an older man should allow himself to be so deluded by avarice, whereas Francis, who was still a young man, was abandoning all his temporal goods for the love of God.
He resolved to rectify the wrong he had done and to renounce his avarice.
Almighty God, who advances to meet the repentant sinner, led him on to still greater generosity.
During a night in a dream, Sylvester saw scene Francis, a brilliant across that had reached up to heaven,
and had its cross beam stretched out to the ends of the earth, proceeded from his mouth.
A monstrous dragon that sprawled over the city of Assisi fled at the side of the cross.
This dream was repeated on three successive nights.
Sylvester understood from this that the order of the St. Francis was destined by its preaching of the cross to drive out the devil everywhere.
He began to lead a very penitential life.
Soon afterwards, he sold all his goods, divided the proceeds among the poor, and humbly asked St. Francis for admission into his order.
Francis received the penitent with great joy and esteemed him highly as the first priest of the order, being especially fond of him because of his earnest efforts in acquiring perfection.
Sylvester became a special lover of solitude and prayer, and which he was so favored that, according to the account in the Annals, he spoke with God as Moses once did, as a man does with his friend.
Hence, at times when St. Francis was in doubt about certain matters, he would go to Sylvester to determine what was the will of God in his regard.
So it once happened that St. Francis sent a message to Sylvester when he was trying to decide whether he should serve God by going out to preach or by devoting himself to prayer.
And the Holy Spirit, so St. Bonaventure relates, revealed to the venerable priest, as also to St. Clair, that Francis should go forth to preach the gospel.
On his missionary journeys to Tuscany, the Holy Founder chose Sylvester as his companion.
At Arezzo, they found furious civil war raging.
As one of his early biographer relates, Francis saw a host of jubilant devils hovering over the city, spurring on the inhabitants in their strife.
He commanded Sylvester to go and drive out the devils in his name.
With simple trust, the servant of God went up to the city gate and cried out aloud.
In the name of Almighty God, and by virtue of the command of his servant Francis, depart from here all ye evil spirits.
The devils disappeared and from that moment on, the citizens came to terms of peace.
Sylvester lived for 14 years after the death of St. Francis, constantly advancing in perfection.
He died in the odor of sanctity at Assisi in the year 1240 and was buried in the church of St. Francis.
Concerning avarice.
Consider what a detestable vice is avarice.
It respects no state of life nor any position of honor.
Sylvester was a prominent, well-to-do man.
He was appraised, yet avarice drove him to descend to contemptible, haggling.
But it did not also make a traitor of Judas, but did it not also make a traitor of Judas, an apostle of the Lord?
It does not sit in at once with serious things, taking advantage of others.
In all manner of small injustices are the living germs of this vice.
If we allow them to take root in our hearts, this advice will gain strength and make its slaves capable of all sorts of wickedness so that the apostle can say in truth, the desire of money is the root of all evil.
1 Timothy 6.10.
Do you perhaps perceive the germs of covetousness in yourself?
Consider that the Holy Spirit Ephesians 5.5 designates
covetousness as a serving of idols.
Because the avaricious man places worldly goods on a level width and sometimes even above his gun.
His thoughts and ambitions are concentrated solely on material gain.
He is little interested in prayer and divine services.
He pretends that his work will not permit him to attend Holy Mass during the week.
although he could readily arrange for it.
Even the Sundays, frequently profaned for the sake of work.
On the other hand, worldliness and vanity are frequently coupled with avarice and constantly stir it up to greater intensity.
We want to amount to something in the world.
We want to have everything grand and fashionable.
In order to achieve our purpose, we hanker and inordinately strive after money and temple goods.
No says the apostle that no such man has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ.
Ephesians 5,5.
Is it possible that you may forfeit the heavenly inheritance for that same reason?
Consider how we can escape from the baneful vice of covetousness.
The example of St. Francis, who strove only for heavenly treasures, brought the avaricious Sylvester to his senses.
From then on, he too directed his attention to higher things, to the eternal, and shortly he was satisfied in temporal goods with the least and happy to possess only what was necessary.
You too will profit by turning your attention to the things of eternity, to imperishable treasures which await us, and by heeding the admonition of the apostle.
But godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into this world, and certainly we can carry nothing out.
But having food and wherewith to be covered, with these we are content.
First Timothy 6 through 8.
prayer of the church.
Oh God, in whom we live, move, and have our being, grant that being sufficiently helped in our temporal needs, we may seek with more confidence the things that are eternal.
Through Christ our Lord.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, Servant of God Sylvester of Assisi.
Our next sermon is entitled,
knowing, believing, and living the truth.
The first reading today we hear about Naaman the Syrian.
He had this little slave girl from Israel.
There are several fascinating things to look at in this.
Number one, the fact that he would listen to this little girl.
This is an army general.
He has a little slave.
And when the slave says, if you would just go to Israel to the prophet, he would heal you.
And the man goes directly to the king and says, hey, my little slave said that if I go over to Israel, I can be healed.
That he listened to her and he believed her.
Then when he comes
Eventually, we hear about the nonsense of the king, but then when he comes finally to Elisha, notice that the prophet doesn't come out.
So he says to the king, send him to me so that he will realize that there is a prophet in Israel.
But it's not just that Naaman would realize that there's a prophet in Israel.
It's that the king would realize that there's a prophet in Israel and so would the people.
So Naaman comes, but he's already got this idea as we hear about all the gifts that he's bringing along and all the stuff.
This man is going to heal me.
This man has no power to heal anyone.
He's a prophet of the Lord.
The Lord would heal him.
And so
Elisha doesn't even come down to see the man.
He just simply sends word through his own servant, tell him to go to the Jordan and plunge in seven times.
Well, this isn't what the man expected.
No, I thought he was going to come and he was going to wave his hand over the spot and all these different things that he's talking about.
Again, he wants everyone to know that this is the Lord at work.
He's not a magician who is going to do something extraordinary here.
It's not smoke and mirrors.
It is the reality of God.
But what is important is also to recognize, even as the Lord makes clear in the gospel, the people in Israel didn't believe.
The king didn't believe.
The people didn't believe.
That's why Naaman would actually have to say to the king, send me.
You can realize there is a prophet in Israel.
Well, the prophets never accepted in his own country, Jesus said.
They didn't accept Elisha.
They're not accepting Jesus either.
They didn't want to hear what he had to say.
And then when he challenged them, what was their reaction?
They all rose up in fury because obviously they were already convinced of their own extraordinary holiness.
We are the people of God after all.
Who are you to tell us that we don't believe?
We're the chosen people.
because they knew they were the chosen people.
They didn't believe because they didn't have to.
God chose me, so I don't have to choose God.
I've been told the same thing from the priests over in Rome.
He said the people in Rome just have this attitude that, yeah,
You can do anything.
St. Peter is going to save us on the last day.
He'll take care of us.
Good luck.
So we have to be very careful now because we have been given the fullness of the truth.
And do we believe it?
And let's be honest with ourselves.
The answer is no.
Remember Jesus told us, if you had faith the size of a mustard seed, you could say to this tree, be uprooted and go.
It's not happening.
When we look at the disaster in the church and in the world right now, it's because of an absolute and total lack of faith.
Now that doesn't mean everybody is without faith.
But when we realize that more than three-quarters of people who call themselves Catholic don't believe that Jesus is present in the Eucharist, we have a total lack of faith.
What else are you going to believe in?
If that's not Jesus, why would you believe in anything that He said?
Well, I guess we don't, do we?
So why do we come to mass?
so that we can feel good about ourselves?
Or are we here to worship Him, to love Him, and to recognize our dependence on Him, that He's not just a prophet, that He is God?
That's what we have to be able to understand.
And if He is truly God, which He is, then how should I be living my life in accordance with that?
So it's something again for us to look at.
I mean, even this pagan man named in the Syrian, when he realizes that he's been healed, notice that what he says.
He doesn't say, oh, the prophet healed me.
He said, now I know there is no other God in all the world except in Israel.
There is no other God, period.
There is only one.
We're really, really good at giving Him lip service.
Where are our hearts?
Again, when we listen to what Jesus said, the Prophet Elijah, God sent him to a pagan
So there were many widows in Israel, but to none of them was Elijah sent.
But only to this pagan woman, because she had faith.
As the Lord your God lives, she said.
And she put her confidence in the Lord.
Would we have that kind of faith?
Would we have even the faith that Naaman had?
If some little girl said to you, I'll just do this.
You go, oh, okay, good idea.
No, or probably not.
Think about the effort it took for this man.
He didn't have cars, you know, so tip people to get from where he was to Israel.
That was a bit of a challenge.
He was willing to do what he needed to do.
How many of us look at things and say, ah, it's inconvenient?
Because it's inconvenient, we just don't want to do it.
So we acknowledge that the Lord is God, but we don't live it sometimes.
So again, something for us to think about.
The prophet's never accepted in his own country.
What are we going to say about God?
Because the prophet is just a human person whom God has chosen.
Jesus said, whoever receives you receives me, means whoever rejects you rejects me.
If we don't accept the prophet, we're not going to accept God who sent him.
So again, something for us to think about.
Look at the disposition in our own hearts and ask ourselves about that faith.
And not the objective parts of the faith, as I keep saying.
We all believe what the Catechism says.
That is, we all know what the Catechism says in our heads.
Do we believe it in our hearts?
Are we really willing to put this into practice?
Do we really trust God?
Do we really have confidence in God?
For most of us, when push comes to shove, the answer is no.
We don't like to hear that.
We're going to rise up in fury just like the people in the synagogue at Nazareth.
But let's at least be humble and look at it honestly and ask ourselves if this is true.
Because if it is, then we need to change our hearts.
so that we can learn from that widow in Zarefat, so that we can learn from name in the Syrian.
Because of all the people in Israel, God didn't touch any of those because they didn't have the faith.
When the pagan centurions said, only say the word and my servant will be healed, the Lord said, never, never have I found this much faith in Israel.
Quite a statement.
Never.
So what's he going to say about you and me?
Is he going to look at us and say, well done, good and faithful servant.
You believed, you lived it.
You are fantastic.
Never had a better example in the world.
Or is he going to look at us and say, I tell you, I do not know you.
I'll say, but Lord, Lord, you did this and that and the other thing.
Does he know us?
Do we know him is the real question?
Because we truly know him.
We're going to love him and we're going to live according to his way.
That's the challenge put before all of us.
So not an easy thing to listen to.
not an easy thing to take in, but a great opportunity for us to really look at a few people who really put their faith into practice and then look at our own.
It's not what's in the head, it's what's in the heart.
We know what the truth is.
Do we really believe it?
Do we really live it?
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, Knowing, Believing, and Living the Truth.
Our final sermon for today is entitled, Not the Healthy, but the Sick.
Those who are healthy do not need a physician, but the sick do.
I have not come to call the righteous to repentance, but sinners.
Today's Gospel passage from St. Luke's Gospel
narrates the calling of Levi, more commonly known as Matthew, once a tax collector and publican slash sinner, to become an apostle, one of those members of the select group of the apostles, the 12.
This association of Jesus and his disciples with tax collectors and sinners was not surprisingly
a source of scandal for them.
But Jesus replied to them with that, those words we heard at the beginning, those who are healthy do not need a physician, but the sick do.
I have not come to call the righteous to repentance, but sinners.
These are words that are very consoling, at least they should be to all of us, because our Lord calls
us who are not healthy but who are sick spiritually speaking.
He calls us to himself to be healed.
He calls us to himself as the divine physician and to him there is no spiritual sickness that is incurable.
He can cure all illnesses.
He can heal us entirely.
It's consoling also because
We are not righteous as well.
We are not holy.
At least we are not there yet.
And so our Lord has come for us as well.
We are sinners, in fact.
And we could even consider ourselves great sinners, just like the saints consider themselves not just sinful, but very sinful, greatest of sinners like St. Francis of Assisi.
And they were only speaking the truth in that
sense that without God's grace, they indeed would be immersed in the worst of sins.
So these consoling words of our Lord Jesus should move us to come to Him humbly and with a contrary heart so as to be healed.
And He waits for us to be healed, especially in prayer when He offers us His grace.
a grace that heals us, and especially in the sacraments, in a particular way, the sacrament of confession.
That's where we can encounter our Lord in a very powerful way, the divine physician in the sacrament of his mercy.
It's a great sacrament of healing, par excellence.
The sins our Lord wants to remove from us, and he wishes to do so.
There is no sin that he cannot forgive.
you know, in that great sacrament, there are no sins too numerous that he's unwilling to forgive.
What's worse than our sinfulness and what's most displeasing to our Lord is not that, you know, our sinfulness, but our refusal to ask him to forgive us.
Or on top of that, you know, what the Pharisees and scribes did
They denied their own sinfulness.
They were unwilling to admit that truth about themselves.
And this was the way in which they had cut themselves off from God's grace and mercy.
That prideful refusal to admit one's own need for God's mercy, for the Savior, Christ himself, the divine physician.
This is such a great need, therefore, for humility.
you know, in the spiritual life, you know, to begin it, you know, to receive those initial graces and to continue to receive those graces, you know, really our salvation and our sanctification depend a great deal upon this virtue of humility, you know, which leads to also truly a country heart, you know, pleasing to our Lord in which our Lord would never spurn, but always gratefully welcome.
So this is truth
about ourselves in need of the physician, being unhealthy, in need of the Savior, being sinful.
It's the truth that really does set us free.
If we really acknowledge it and accept it, embrace it, and not pretend to be what we're not already righteous and holy, sinless.
So it's a freeing truth, one that really does give us great peace and joy because
It opens us up to our Lord, ready to give us His grace and great abundance.
So that is a perfect time, of course, to renew our awareness of this simple, all-important truth about ourselves.
Accept it more humbly and to live it out, and not even to share it with others, to share the truth that those fellow sinners out there, they too,
are called to our Lord to be healed completely of their sins.
We can invite them to open their hearts to God's mercy, which is infinite.
And maybe even invite them to the sacrament of penance, of confession, especially if they have not been to that sacrament in a long time.
And many of our loved ones, perhaps, we hope and pray will receive that grace.
Maybe this London season,
And we can perhaps be instruments in that, inviting them anew to our Lord, awaiting them in the sacrament of His mercy.
On this first Saturday of the month as well, we recall our lady, her help, and if she is the health of the sick, the comfort of the afflicted, we turn to her and ask for an increase in that grace to be more humble and more contrite of heart.
and therefore to never be spurned by her Lord, by her Son.
Praise be Jesus had buried.
We hope you enjoyed our final sermon for today entitled, Not the Healthy, but the Sick.
Thank you for listening to the Station of the Cross presents Sermons for Everyday Living.
May these sermons help you grow in your faith journey.
Please say three Hail Marys for the priests who preached today's sermons.
We hope you will join us again next time for Sermons for Everyday Living.
Have a blessed day.